Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Claros podcast. This
is daily dose of God's word transforming
you to fulfill God's purpose for your
life. In this episode, we'll be
concluding on our teaching developing
the Hinaman. We'll be retrating the
number of things that we have said and
making some emphasis on some other
things that we've said. You recall that
what led us to this juncture in our
study is the understanding of God's
purpose. That is we have seen what God's
purpose is. We have seen the road map of
God's purpose. We've seen the need for
growth to be able to fulfill God's
purpose. So is not enough. We know his
purpose and how to go about it. But we
need to be capable of carrying out that
will that he has for us. But when we saw
the subject matter of growth, it led us
to the study of the mind of man because
it's on the mind of man that growth
happens. Also, it led us to the study of
faith stand because we grow by faith.
But we came back to the study of man's
mind to pinpoint the exact place where
we grow which we identified as the
hidden man or the inner man. And by
doing this we have been able to make a
very important conclusion that we can
think of man on three levels. Can think
about the inward man which is the spirit
man, the outward man which we may call
the body man and then the mind but that
there's a specific aspect of the mind
that can be referred to as the hidden
man or inner man. So it's one thing that
you have this tent called your body is
another thing that you have the nature
of God the fullness of Christ in you.
Your spirit's nature you are one spirit
with the Lord. But most importantly you
have this third part that defines who
you are what you do and whether or not
you fulfill God's purpose. And that part
we're talking about is the Eden man. The
Edim man is this important vital part of
us as humans and also as believers that
we need to fix our attention on because
when we know who we are in Christ, we
know the nature of our spirit. We know
the condition of our spirit man. We we
could have this disconnect between that
reality and our conducts, what we do,
how we walk. But what accounts for every
single expression that we have, every
single action we take is the state of
our hidden man or inner man. And this
part is malleable, can be morphed, can
be changed. There are many descriptions
used to explain what happens to this
hidden man or inner man. Peter in 1
Peter 3 says we are to adorn the hidden
man. Paul in Ephesians 3:16 says we are
to strengthen the inner man. In
Ephesians 4:13, he says the leadership
of the church is to bring that inner man
or hidden man into the perfect man which
he calls the measure of the stature of
the fullness of Christ. Definitely
showing growth there by the choice of
word stature. But in Ephesians 4:20, he
uses another description again.
Ephesians 4:20-24, he said we need to
put off and put on which looks like that
word adorn that Peter was using. But the
part of us that has this putting off and
putting on where this putting off and
putting on is happening is what he calls
the spirit of the mind. He uses another
description for the inner man which is
spirit of the mind. I could reference
Romans 13 and:14. Paul says we should
put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no
provision for the flesh to fulfill its
lust. And where are we to put on the
Lord Jesus Christ? Where are we to put
on Christ? Because there's one sense of
scripture that says we have already put
on Christ talking about our spirit. So
Romans 13:14 is talking about in our
mind particularly in the spirit of our
mind or the soul of our mind or the
hidden man or inner man. So there's
something we need to do to this hidden
man. Now we spend a lot of time looking
at the Lord Jesus's own description of
this hidden man inner man spirit of the
mind. There are many places you could
probably see it but the major one is
Matthew 12:33 downwards to 37 together
with Matthew 15 10 as well as verse 18
to 20. Now in Matthew 12:33 the Lord
said you can make the tree good and then
it fruit to be good or you can make the
tree bad and his fruit to be bad and
you're like okay what's the tree? Are we
talking about the nature of people here?
But he was talking about the heart. He
goes on to say brood of vipers how can
you being evil speak good things out of
the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaks and to show you that the heart
there is not about the spirit he
describes it again as a deposit so you
are not depositing in your spirit and
withdrawing from your spirit your spirit
is a permanent nature you have now
you're partaker of the divine nature
rather talking about the mind so he says
a good man out of the good treasures of
his heart brings forth good things and
an evil man out of the evil treasures of
his heart brings forth evil things so
there's this part of us that is like a
depositing place in our mind and I think
you know by now that not all aspects of
your mind are a deposit place you have
your will in your mind that's not a
deposit place your emotions coming from
your mind that's not a deposit as an
effect you have your memory can be huggy
to be a deposit but it's just the
natural function that you could remember
things you have the reasoning part of
your mind that's not a deposit that's
more of you considering thinking based
on your observation and perception the
real part of your mind that is the issue
when he talks about the deposit part of
your mind is your consciousness or your
reckoning because your conviction is not
a deposit issue. It could be settled
once and for all. But what reinforces
the conviction you have or reinforces
other things contrary to the conviction
that you have is this reckoning or
consciousness part of the mind, this
spirit of the mind, this soul of the
mind, this hidden man or hammer man is
where the deposit is going on. So if
he's saying you could make the tree or
the deposit good or you could make the
tree or deposit bad and therefore the
fruit or the things you withdraw from
there would be good or bad. We need to
understand this concept of the tree
which we have done. We went to Genesis
chapter 1 and 2 and Proverbs chapter 3
several texts all the way to clarify how
to think of this seed tree and fruit
concept relative to how man functions.
to conclude because I want to go to
other emphasis. What we saw from there
was seeds are planted on our hearts on
our minds and they grow into a tree
which is the point of clarity and we
partake of that tree depending on which
we agree with by speaking. I hope you
remember the text proverbs 18:20 your
belly will be satisfied by the fruit of
your mouth and by the produce of your
lips you'll be filled. 21 will say death
and life are in the control of the
tongue. Those who love it will eat the
fruit thereof. There's the sewing of the
seed of go of God's word or sewing of
contrary seeds on your heart. Always
happening kind of like as long as you're
in this world is happening like
regularly. You go on media, you see
something even something you disagree
with. It goes into your mind but you
have to respond to it. It can create a
reinforcement if you're not responding
to it with what you want to reinforce.
All right. Imagine someone the person
sees something negative and every time
the person sees it the person just says
I mean that's bad but the person keeps
saying the negative thing very soon the
threshold for you it's going to become
normalized you understand what I mean
it's not the person is not going to have
to say that's bad every second
eventually will be that's bad but you
know and the person keeps going and it's
getting reinforced but that is not
supposed to be because when that comes
to your mind you need to reinforce what
you want not simply just recognize what
is bad Your recognition has not stopped
the reinforcement of that thing. There
needs to be a actual reinforcement of
the things that are right that you want
to put on your heart. And that's the
time for you to say, "Oh, I'm the
righteousness of God or I'm a new
creation or I don't know what the
context may be." So you could say, "I
have authority over all the works of
darkness." It could be on anything. It
could be about health. So you could say,
"The healing power of God always works
in my body. So I am the healed of God."
It could just be about anything. You
shouldn't be permissive about the flow
of random things into your heart having
this reinforcement without you choosing
what you actually want to be on your
heart. And speaking we see is how we
partake. Speaking is how we partake of
whatever comes to our heart. Or another
way I could actually say it is speaking
is how we deposit on our heart. Because
this act of depositing no making
ourselves who we are from which we are
going to draw out our actions you know
whether we are partaking of life or we
partaking of death what this act of
depositing or sowing or strengthening
the inner man which Ephesians 3:17 says
by faith Christ will dwell in your heart
by faith it's your speaking you are
speaking God's word we looked at several
texts like Joshua 1:8 book of law will
not depart from your mouth shall
meditate therein day and night then you
shall observe to do all that is written
therein when it doesn't depart from your
mouth. That's when you are able to do.
It's the same thing Deuteronomy 13:14
says also Deuteronomy 6:49.
So when you're speaking God's word, you
are strengthened to do it. People like
to talk about the knowing and the doing
gap like bridging the knowing and doing
gap. I mean is a matter of secular
discussion as well. In the faith of
Christ that which bridges the knowing
and the doing gap is faith stand. That
stand of faith eliminates every liturgy,
every indifference, every coldness,
every prevailing worldview, mindset that
stands in the way of doing what you have
known. When you stay in that place of
faith, affirming God's word, then all
that is required in will, desire, drive,
and ability to get what you need to do
done is sorted there. So you must be
able to bulldo your way from that place
of faith stand into the doing. You must
be able to from the place of faith stand
get yourself into the doing. So it's not
enough that you know and you know it and
you just stay there. You must by faith
get into the doing or let's leave the
doing. Let's get into the experiencing
because sometimes it's not doing. This
could be something supernatural like
healing into the experiencing or to
capture both doing and experiencing. You
get from the knowing into the walking.
So walking can be your experience.
Walking can be your actions or conduct,
your attitude etc. It is faith that gets
us into the hand. When we saw that we
came back to the New Testament text, we
have seen a lot on this when we studied
faith stand like Romans 6:11 where Paul
says you already know but now reckon so
you can do another word to use is
present yourself. Romans 6:13 present
yourself not as an instrument of
unrighteousness to sin or your members
not as instruments of unrighteousness to
sin but as instruments of righteousness
unto God. So you present so affirming
that is by faith. There's Colossians 2:6
that says we walk just the same way we
got saved. The only difference is one is
fit stand. One is just an instance of
faith. In Romans 12, it tells us to
present and that when we present
ourselves as who we are, it's our
reasonable worship. It's our reasonable
service. It's our logical worship. And
that shows that word worship like prayer
used for temple worship and activity.
And the temple being the dwelling place
of God where we are supposed to interact
with him in prayer and fellowship and
worship is to show us that this act of
presenting oursel is part of what
happens in prayer. So I said prayer is
the primary habitat of faith stand. That
means where we make consistent this life
of faith for the sake of our walk our
experiences and our action is in the
place of prayer. Prayer is the primary
habitat of faith stand. When we saw
this, we looked at what the Lord Jesus
said like Luke 11 and Luke 18 about the
persistence of faith in the place of
prayer. So in the two instances was
teaching prayer in Luke 11 they asked
them to pray. But when he did, he gave a
parable about being persistent about
opportunity, consistency. And he now
says, "So I say to you, ask and you
receive. Seek and you find. Knock." Stay
persistent in faith when you pray and
result show forth. Whether it's prayer
for God's kingdom, your needs, or prayer
pertaining to your character, such as
walking in love or forgiveness, or
walking in righteousness. And that's the
same through the scripture as 2
Corinthians 1:4. By faith you stand. So
as we wrap up, I want to leave you with
this. The way we develop the inner man
is by the persistence of faith in
prayer. And what we did in the last
episode is to show that this persistence
of faith in prayer includes praying in
the spirit that is praying in tonesues
that in in our explanation. So praying
in tonesues is a vital or effective way
of staying of being persistent in prayer
for our transformation for our
emboldening to do God's will. You
remember we saw 1 Corinthians chapter 14
and verse 4. He that prays in tonges
edifies himself. He that prophesies
edifies the church. And you edify the
church by giving them the knowledge that
inspires their faith. In this case when
you pray in tongues is not as much the
knowledge is as much is more more your
faith because you many times you are the
determinant of what you are praying when
you're praying in the spirit. Sometimes
you are not. You are just fellowshiing
with God. And we see that that word
okomio when he speaks about the
edification that happens when we pray in
tongues is also used in 1 Corinthians 8
and verse 10 for emboldening our
conscience. It's not just about
knowledge is about this conscience part
of us. This consciousness part of us
this reckoning part of us this hidden
man or inner man part of us that part of
us can be edified. That part of us can
be mute please if you understand what I
mean. So it can be build up and it can
be weak just as that text says. It says
the conscience of those who are weak
become emboldened. It becomes developed.
It becomes built up to do something that
even is contrary to their conviction
which is a problem. Someone can do
something contrary to their conviction
because their consciousness is
strengthened to do it. And for us when
we know we have our convictions we can
pray in the spirit strengthen our
consciousness man or inner man to do it.
So how do you develop your hidden man?
by faith stand primarily in prayer
secondarily in the ongoing confessions
you can make at different times of your
life and I encourage you to make a
discipline of this one of the ways you
can is to join corporate prayers of the
church this is a pattern we find in
God's word right from the old testament
text the lord asked them to have
corporate prayers twice daily around the
tabernacle when the temple was there
they did this around the temple and it
continued when the lord was around even
afterwards you see that they went to
prayer the hour of prayer by following
corporate prayer prayers like for
example the pleos prayer watch which you
can join by joining our community you
can go to the website you join the
community you can join the prayer watch
three times daily you know when you join
corporate prayers it strengthens even
your own personal times of devotion and
faith stand as well we're going to wrap
it up here for now I'm sure it's clear
how to develop the inner man is by faith
stand in prayer thank you see you on the
next one
>> we trust you were blessed by today's
episode do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it to learn more
of God's word. Visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp, and
follow us on all our social media
handles at Plurose_hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.